# Conclusion

This project is dedicated to show the relationship between the specific heart disease indicators and heart disease rate in groups of people from the data collected by the CDC.

In the previous pages, we tackled the problems in three different perspectives: Heart Disease Factors(Smoking/alcohol/Stroke/Diabetic/Asthma/Kidney Disease), Gender&Age, and Sleep Hours.

1. In terms of heart disease factors, since population is divided in to people who have heart disease and those who does not, the bar chart were created to examine the influence of the factors. Usually, Smoking increases the formation of plaque in blood vessels. Coronary Heart Disease occurs when arteries that carry blood to the heart muscle are narrowed by plaque or blocked by clots. Chemicals in cigarette smoke cause the blood to thicken and form clots inside veins and arteries. According to the data, the bar chart shows that there are around 12.2% people who were diagnosed with heart disease have smoking habits and only 6.0% for those who does not smoke. Similarly, for people who previously had stokes, they tend to have heart disease much more than those who does not, with the percentage of 36.4% comparing to 7.4 percentage. Those happened to kidney disease, diabetic, and asthma people as well. However, commonly known that alcohol consumption comes with some serious health risks, which is a toxin that can damage the liver, pancreas and other organs. The graph shows people who drinks alcohol is negatively related to having heart disease so alcohol drinking might not be a key factor to heart disease. Therefore, we can conclude that the takeaway for these bar charts is that people who were previously had some heart issues are more likely to have bad heart conditions.  

2. secondly, we thought that age and gender is a big category for heart disease. Aging can cause changes in the heart and blood vessels that may increase a person's risk of developing cardiovascular disease. From the graph, we can see that as the age increase, the percentage of people who getting heart disease is increasing. So there is some relationship between age and heart disease. Interestingly, the rate of heart disease increase more among men than woman and men have higher rate of getting heart disease. the takeaway for this graph is that people would have a higher chance of getting heart disease and this is going to be for both genders.



3. As for our research for the correlation of sleep time and heart disease. People who were least likely to develop cardiovascular disease went to sleep between 10 p.m. and 10:59 p.m. and wake up as early as 6-8 a.m.  the researchers found that those who went to sleep between 11 and 11:59 p.m. had a 12% higher risk, and those who went to sleep before 10 p.m. had a 24% higher risk. The percentages presented above were calculated by using the number of people who got heart disease to divide by total number of people in each sleep hour category. Regardless of the abnormal data (more than 16 hours or less than 2 hours), the graph shows that there are slightly more chances to get heart disease if people sleep more than 9 hours or less than 5 hours. The takeaway for this would be that as the sleep time falls in between 9-5 hours per day and meets your daily routines, you are less likely to have a heart disease.




The most important insight we learned from this project is that usually bad habits, age, other heart issues can have a significant impact one's heart health and possibly lead to heart disease. However, not all the heart disease indicators we studies in this project show a positive relationship with the chance of getting heart diseases. We hope that by analyzing this data set can provide people a better understanding of how their personal habits and body conditions can relate to heart disease or just any other health issues that might need to be concerned. For the future studies, we would like to accomplish websites similar to what's been done by Kamil Pytlak, which is a heart disease prediction method where people can fill out their personal informations and run through a basic analysis to see if they are likely to have heart dieases.
https://share.streamlit.io/kamilpytlak/heart-condition-checker/main/app.py
